alright so in this video we're going to
go ahead and download and setup scene
builder for a mac computer it's part of
this process we are actually also going to
configure it so that it actually works
in intelliJ as well let's make a start
on that now firstly as i mentioned in
the previous video we talked about scene
builder for the first time you might
find some old binaries if you search for scene
builder online from oracle but don't actually
use those because they don't include the
latest updates to java fx now
there's a company called glue on and
have taken the lead in keeping scene
builder up-to-date and actually provide
installers for most platforms so that's
what we're going to do two or where we going
to go to get scene builder working so
paste the link into the browser and
we'll go to...and we'll
get to there scene builder page
and you can see here is the page about
scene builder and if we scroll down and
have a look
notice that there's installation files
for most platforms including Linux what
this is a mac video so I'm going to go
ahead and download the mac version
now fortunately it's not too large its about
under 80 megabytes so it won't
take too long to download I'm going to
pause the video and we'll come back once
the download is finished
alright so the download is completed so
i'm going to open the dmg file that was
downloaded and agree to the license and
we're going to do the installation by
just dragging it over the scene builder
into our applications you can see that
we've now got scene builder in there
alright so that's what we need to do to
install it pretty straightforward and
i'm just going to eject that now that
we are finish with the installer and
will close down the finder and actually
what we can do before I go into the
installation on intelliJ
just run this and just to
have a look at it will open up scene builder
that we've just installed and this is
actually the tool that's installed will
cancel that for now and you can see that
we've got a basic scene builder and i'm
not going to go into this in detail here
because we're going to do that in the
future
view within IntelliJ point is it's a
standalone program that we can use but
theirs also a mechanism that we can actually
use to incorporate this into intelliJ
and that's obviously what we want to do
so it's more convenient for convenient
for us when we're developing programs
i'm going to close scene builder here
and quit out of it and swing over
to IntelliJ and within IntelliJ open
i'm going to come up here and click on
configure and select Preferences gonna
come over here to click on languages and
frameworks and i'm going to select
javafx then what we need to do is
specify the path to scene builder and
that's the program that we're just
installed i'm going to click on the ellipse
over here and the path that we want will
actually be applications and we come
down and select scene builder
click OK and then we click on OK again
to save that and that's actually it
so we've now installed scene builder on
our computer and also configured
IntelliJ so that it's actually good to
go in we can use scene builder within
IntelliJ so it's time to move on to the
next video in that video we are actually going
to start using IntelliJ with scene
builder so see you in the next video